so Apple's September iPhone event just
went down and I went into this event
with very low expectations but having
used a bunch of the devices there's a
lot more to unpack than I'd originally
thought so let's start off with the
iPhone 16 pro and pro Max so the new
color for this year is the desert
titanium it's like a cream colored back
with kind of like a bronish trim I was
just surprised that there was no bright
or vibrant colorways on the Pro Models
this year like there's no blue or green
Hues it was just like neutral tones uh
but these devices are bigger this year
so Dimensions just like holding them
they didn't actually feel noticeably
larger than the previous models like if
I didn't know that they were bigger I
may not have been able to tell just
looking at the backs of them but the
moment we flip them over the screens are
noticeably bigger so it's a bigger
screen on both the pro and the pro Max
this year but it's not just the bigger
screen it's the thinner bezels are
definitely noticeable the moment I
picked them up now in terms of
performance the new pro and pro Max use
the new a18 Pro chip and this is a
supposedly fairly decent Step Up in
terms of performance on CPU and GPU and
because this is more energy efficient
ship this is now a longer lasting series
of devices than the previous generation
the new battery life claims from Apple
do look quite good but it still uses 8
gigs of RAM that was very surprising to
me like I thought that with all this new
AI Hardware that's in there that
typically uses a lot of ram that it
would require an elevated bump for
across the board right but the pro
devices both the 16 Pro and the 16 Pro
Max both still have 8 gigs of RAM and
this is like pixel devices the pro
devices have 16 gigs of RAM like
literally double the ram so I mean it's
it's interesting to see the strategy
that Apple's built for their AI
integration and implementation but
clearly it doesn't use a ton of ram now
one AI feature that Apple showed at this
event that they did not show during WWDC
was their new visual intelligence
feature and the idea behind this is very
similar to Google ends like you take
your phone you activate the camera at
something and it snaps a picture and
visual intelligence will tell you what
kind of dog it was that you just took a
picture of or if you snap it at like a
restaurant or something it'll show you
the menu or possibly show you reviews
but the idea is that it's using the
camera and using some context of you
know how you're using it it'll now give
you information that you might require
now the implementation of this is not
novel in anyway but the way they've done
it is through a new physical button that
you use to Launch visual intelligence
and I think the way you do it right now
is that you tap that button and you hold
it for a second and then it'll launch
however this whole visual intelligence
feature is not ready yet I wasn't able
to demo it at the event it's supposed to
launch towards the tail end of this year
but the other thing that this button can
do is that it can launch camera controls
so they actually don't refer to this
whole button thing as a button they
actually call it camera control every
time I use the word button in front of
the Apple reps they be like no no no
it's not actually a button it's called
camera control control so you can use
this camera control to launch the camera
so if you tap it it'll launch the camera
app and if you tap it again it'll take a
picture and if you hold it it'll Roll
video but in addition to those kind of
basic camera controls you can use it to
go through the menus and basically just
control your camera through a UI that's
entirely dependent on that capacitive
button thing so it is in fact a
capacitive multi-function
sensor that I'm just referring to as a
button and I call it a button because
when you put pressure on it it depresses
down and when you let go it pops back up
it's a very shallow press like we're
talking like less than a millimeter of
travel for that button and there's also
a capacitive sensor on the inside so
when you slide your finger back and
forth It's detecting that and also
there's a haptic motor inside this whole
thing a very faint one but you can feel
like little bumps As you move around in
the UI now this is I mean it's a very
for for lack of a better term it's
basically like a touchpad on the side of
your phone it's a very Advanced haptic
touchpad uh but very small on the side
of the phone but when I saw this in the
presentation I was like this is awesome
this is like such a cool and Innovative
way to use your phone but I tried it in
the demo area and my immediate reaction
was like this is very complicated like
there's a very steep learning curve as
to how much pressure you need to use to
activate stuff and how not to
accidentally press too hard or press too
lightly and as I looked around the room
in like that whole demo era tons of
people trying this out and it just you
could tell that people were like huh
this is noticeably more complicated to
use than the average apple ux or UI I do
think that if you spent a lot of time
with it you would get Adept with this
whole interface and maybe at that point
it would be very enjoyable to use but my
just initial Impressions was this is
more complicated than I would personally
want on my camera controls also I would
say that this is a very like rightand
oriented user interface like the the
right Edge has to be on the top of the
phone bu to use these controls properly
the camera systems on the iPhone 16 Pros
have a few things of interest to me
first the tetr prism lens that only
existed on the max model last year like
the bigger one is now present on both
models so now both the pro and the pro
Max have the same camera system uh
secondly there is now a 120 frames per
second 4K resolution cinematic mode
shooting option which uses an incredible
amount of processing uh and toble to see
that on a phone is actually it's kind of
Bonkers and thirdly the ultra wide on
both the pro and the pro Max are now
using a 48 megapixel sensor which I
imagine will help significantly with
just better quality Ultra wide shots
that's something that the pro devices
have never been amazing at compared to
some of the competition all right onto
the regular iPhone 16 so there's new
colors these are more Vivid look looking
color selection than the previous
generation there's a pink there's a teal
and there's an ultramarine all three of
them look pretty cool but that teal I
mean that's just 100% that's the best
color without a doubt uh it's just a
really nice looking color for an iPhone
you also get the new action button so
this is a button that only existed on
the Pro Models last year but now the
regular iPhone 16s have them but you've
lost the hardware toggle switch so that
Hardware notification switch that would
tell you if you're muted or not is now
gone on all of the new phones uh they
all have action buttons and then on the
right side of the phone you also have
like the pro model this year the new
button that's not officially a button
now the back of the phone shows a
different camera orientation from the
previous generation so this now has a
vertically oriented camera system it's
got like iPhone 11 Vibes and the purpose
behind this or as the reason as to why
they mount it vertically is I think it's
just to help with spatial VIs capture so
when you're taking spal pictures or spal
videos for that stereoscopic effect just
having them lined up in a linear fashion
instead of like an angle before helps
capture it better the regular iPhone 16s
also have a new chip it's the a18 it's
like the nonpr and this is a pretty
significant jump up from the previous
generation because the previous
generation of kind of bass iPhones have
used older chips and this time around
because of the AI requirements and just
uh the AI goals that Apple seems to have
they've put a more powerful chip and
also 8 gigs of RAM even on the regular
iPhone 16s and this new chip is supposed
to give you 30% faster performance than
the previous generation as well as
significantly longer battery life at
least that's what's being claimed by
Apple now you still get of course 60 HZ
screens and also USB 2 transfer speeds I
don't mind the slower transfer speeds
because I feel like that only affects
nerds like me like how many people are
actually plugging up and transferring
photos and stuff that's well not
acceptable that's understandable to me
what kills me is the that the 60 HZ
screens like at this point there are
$200 Android phones out there with 120
HZ displays and to see a 60 HZ display
on this device like I think it's the
thing it's the feature that Apple will
continue to use to separate the pro
model from the non-pro model it's like
the best thing that they can use to
separate the to and price them so
distinctly
differently it just it bothers me there
were also some interesting announcements
around some audio products so they now
have airpods 4 this is kind of like
their entrylevel open wireless earbuds
these supposedly have better sound
quality and because there's the presence
of the H2 chip there's also like
adaptive audio and transparency mode all
that cool stuff uh but the other thing
is that airpods 4 has a second variant
that has active noise cancellation and
this was very interesting to me because
like typically when it comes to noise
cancellation especially active noise
cancellation it's paired it's done best
when you have a
sealed earbud kind of like their airpods
Pro product and apple isn't the first
company to try this uh Samsung's done a
bunch of companies actually tried it and
they're never great so I'm very curious
how Apple tries to pull this off and
it's just because when you don't have
the airtight seal that you would
typically have with UHC products you
just have a really tough time producing
a good amount of Bas and you need a good
amount of Base to cancel out the lower
frequencies that you're hearing right to
be able to do good noise cancellations
so I'm just really curious to see how
Apple does this uh the other product
that they have well it's not really a
product it's an update to a product they
have the airpods Pro 2 getting a future
software update that allows them to be
used as essentially hearing aids like
you would use your app and run a
clinically validated hearing test that
now allows the airpods pro two to like
adjust certain frequencies to give you
the effects of a hearing aid and these
are like easy to charge compared to like
a regular hearing aid you like swap out
the batteries and stuff this is so
disruptive to me this is super cool now
obviously airpod Pro two are not as
comfortable as some hearing aids I
imagine so maybe some like you know
updated tips third party who knows but
the idea of this is so cool and I would
not be surprised if a whole bunch of
other companies Implement something like
this with their wireless earbuds in the
future as well cuz it's just so useful
and it's like it's seemingly so obvious
at this point after the fact it's like
such a good idea so I want to see that
thing rolled out airpods Max also had a
bit of an update there's some new colors
the blue and the purple look
particularly cool and there's also USBC
charging so essentially all of their
audio products now are USBC charged
which is great but there was no change
in terms of like Hardware to their
airpods Max like they're still using the
same mesh there's no onoff button and
it's still the same price as it launched
at it's like very expensive fouryear old
pair of headphones at this point to me
I'm sure the update is appreciated by
many but it's just I'm surprised they
didn't update the internals at least
they didn't talk about them if they did
uh there's also been updates to the
watches so the Apple watch is now series
10 there's a few interesting changes
first it's thinner which was immediately
noticeable when I handled it but it's
also bigger so the 41 mm is now a 42 mm
watch and then the 45 mm from before is
now a 46 mm and there's also a improved
display that allows it to have better
viewing angles now when I looked at it
in the demo area it wasn't immediately
obvious to me but I couldn't compare it
to an older Apple watch now there's also
a new color called jet black this is a
polished aluminum that looks almost like
black stainless steel but I'm curious to
see how this finish holds up over time
you can now play music on the Apple
watch speaker and it's also got larger
charging coils so you can now charge
faster using the same charging puck as
before it's just a more efficient coil
so it just charges faster I think you
can hit uh I think 80% in 30 minutes if
I'm not mistaken and the series 10 Apple
watches also get a new depth gauge so
this was something that only the ultra
watch got previously uh but now you can
go up to 6 M or 20 ft and it'll keep
track of that water depth underwater so
there's a lot of features that have
trickled down from the Ultra Series that
have just come over to the new series 10
uh but the ultra watch did not get any
significant update there is a new color
the the matte black look but it it's
still Apple watch Ultra 2 not three now
lastly the cases for the iPhones they
have some new ones but they removed
seemingly the whole fine woven products
line that they were so proud of last
year I did not like that material right
when I tested that thing last year and
I'm I guess I'm glad that it's gone I
just felt like it wasn't really up to
Apple's standards uh but it's I don't
think I've seen like a product like that
where they just ran for a year and just
pulled it silently but there we have it
there's no fine moven material at least
not that I saw uh okay there you have it
uh there's a whole bunch of new products
stay tuned for reviews in the future
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it see you guys next time